Natural Language Processing:
  Natural language processing (NLP) is about developing applications and services that are able to understand human languages. Some Practical examples of NLP are speech recognition for eg: google voice search, understanding what the content is about or sentiment analysis etc.
  
Bennefits:
  There are millions of gigabytes every day are generated by blogs, social websites, and web pages.There are many companies gathering all of these data for understanding users and their passions and give these reports to the companies to adjust their plans. Suppose a person loves traveling and is regularly searching for a holiday destination, the searches made by the user is used to provide him with relative advertisements by online hotel and flight booking apps.

  Search engines are not the only implementation of natural language processing (NLP) and there are a lot of awesome implementations out there.

NLP Implementations:

These are some of the successful implementations of Natural Language Processing (NLP):

    1) Search engines like Google, Yahoo, etc. Google search engine understands that you are a tech guy so it shows you results related to you.
    2) Social websites feed like the Facebook news feed. The news feed algorithm understands your interests using natural language processing and shows you related Ads and posts more likely than other posts.
    3) Speech engines like Apple Siri.
    4) Spam filters like Google spam filters. It’s not just about the usual spam filtering, now spam filters understand what’s inside the email content and see if it’s a spam or not.
    
Natural language toolkit (NLTK) is the most popular library for natural language processing (NLP) which was written in Python which is predominantly used to analyse text and generate insights from it.

The Popular areas in NLP include :

    1) Data Retrieval with Web Scraping
    2) Text wrangling and pre-processing
    3) Parts of Speech Tagging
    4) Shallow Parsing
    5) Constituency and Dependency Parsing
    6) Named Entity Recognition
    7) Emotion and Sentiment Analysis
